{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red179\green179\blue179;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c75294\c75294\c75294;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}}
{\info
{\title Alexandre Lemos}
{\doccomm PhD Student}
{\author Alexandre Lemos}}\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Toggle navigation {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Alexandre Lemos}}
\f1\fs24 \cb1  \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#about"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Home }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#publications"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Publications }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#projects"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Projects }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#teaching"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Teaching }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#exp"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Previous Experience }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///ist173316/#contact"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Contact }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fenix.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/downloadFile/1970943312291661/cv.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 CV.pdf }}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Alexandre Lemos\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 PhD Student\
Intituto Superior T\'e9cnico INESC-ID \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Biography\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alexandre Lemos is a PhD student at IST, currently working on Re-solving Hard Computational Problems. At this moment the major focuses is on re-solving the university timetabling problem.\
I am currently teaching the practical classes of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fenix.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/disciplinas/Com5645111326-2/2017-2018/2-semestre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Compilers}} at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of IST.\
For his master thesis, Alexandre worked on Repairing Biological Networks using ASP and SAT based tools.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Interests\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Constraint Programming\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Algorithms\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Bioinformatics\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Security\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Education\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 PhD in Information Systems and Computer, 2016-present day\uc0\u8232 Instituto Superior T
\f2 \'e9
\f1 cnico\uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 MSc in Information Systems and Computer, 2014-2016\uc0\u8232 Instituto Superior T
\f2 \'e9
\f1 cnico\uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 BSc in Information Systems and Computer, 2011-2014\uc0\u8232 Instituto Superior T
\f2 \'e9
\f1 cnico\uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Publications\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 YEASTRACT: an upgraded database for the analysis of transcription regulatory networks in Saccharomyces cerevisiae {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/publication/yeastract/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Details }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/doi/10.1093/nar/gkx842/4191333/YEASTRACT-an-upgraded-database-for-the-analysis-of"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 PDF }}\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Inference in Biological Regulatory Networks {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/publication/thesis/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Details }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fenix.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/downloadFile/281870113703510/Thesis.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 PDF }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fenix.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/downloadFile/1689244997256092/extendedAbstract.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Abstract }}\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Repairing Boolean regulatory networks using Answer Set Programming {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/publication/repair/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Details }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/papers/INForum_2016_Verso_final_31.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 PDF }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/papers/PosterINFORUM.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Poster }}\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Repairing Boolean regulatory networks using Answer Set Programming {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/publication/tec/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Details }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.inesc-id.pt/ficheiros/publicacoes/12097.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 PDF }}\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Conference and Schools\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/talk/summerschoolporto/"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Participation in EAIA 2018 - DS4BD Advanced School on Data Science for Big Data}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  From Jul 2 to Jul 5, EAIA 2018 - DS4BD Advanced School on Data Science for Big Data \uc0\u8232 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/talk/summerschool/"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Participation in SAT/SMT/AR Summer School 2016}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  From Jun 22 to Jun 25, SAT/SMT/AR Summer School 2016 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/talk/inforum16/"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Repairing Boolean regulatory networks using Answer Set Programming}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  From Set 8 to Set 9, INFORUM Simp\'f3sio de Inform\'e1tica 2016 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Projects\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 All\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Answer Set Programming\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Integer Linear Programming\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Games\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Security\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Other\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://addalemos.github.io/RBN/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 ASP based tool to Repair Boolean Networks from time-series data}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Boolean logical models of biological regulatory and signalling networks are increasingly used to formally describe and understand complex biological processes. Such models often need to be repaired whenever new observations become available, rendering the model inconsistent with the new observations. Although many studies have focuses on inferring new models (or classes of models) from data, the automation of model repair is still in its infancy, often still being a manual process and therefore prone to errors. In this work, a tool is provided to suggest possible repair operations to inconsistent models based on changing the model logical functions. The tool uses Answer Set Programming to identify possible repair operations to the models following both synchronous or asynchronous updating schemes. The tool was validated using both Boolean models of randomly generated networks and data sets of Escherichia coli at steady state. The limitations of the implemented tool for each of the updating schemes are discussed. The impact of the minimization algorithm is also addressed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/ADDALemos/Compacter/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Room Usage Optimization in Timetabling: A Case Study at Universidade de Lisboa}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 This paper discusses the problem of room usage usage optimization for university timetables. Given a timetable, the goal is to optimize the room occupation by changing the events allocated to each room. The methods proposed do not solve the problem from scratch and so no curriculum constraints are handled. The main objective is to optimize the timetable scheduled for each room without changing the already defined time slots for each lecture. This type of optimization is important since room space is a precious commodity. The proposed algorithms optimize the space allocation in terms of capacity (seating students) and compactness (reducing the number of gaps in the timetable for each room). This problem is analysed and discussed for the case study of Instituto Superior T
\f2 \'e9
\f1 cnico (IST), the engineering school from Universidade de Lisboa. At IST, the generation of timetables is still hand-made and therefore prone to optimization. This paper proposes a two-stage Integer Linear Programming (ILP) method to optimize the room usage. In the first stage, the goal is to assign lectures to rooms respecting their capacity. The second stage minimizes the gaps by reassigning the lectures to rooms (ensuring the same quality in terms of seated students found in the first stage). This implementation is able, in one hand, to prove optimality in both stages; on the other hand, it is quite time consuming. To address this issue, in this paper we also propose a greedy algorithm. The best cost function used to guide the algorithm is proved to be monotone, positive and sub-modular. Therefore, the results obtained are guaranteed to be within 63 % of the optimal. The proposed solutions are tested using data from the lectures of Instituto Superior T
\f2 \'e9
\f1 cnico taught on the Taguspark and Alameda campus in the academic year of 2016-2017. The greedy algorithm is two orders of magnitude faster than ILP when considering large data sets. In terms of seated students, the best cost function is on average 2 % below the optimal value. The timetable for a given room can be evaluated in terms of compactness (the number of transitions from free to occupied). Considering this metric, the solution provided by a greedy algorithm is only 1.2x worse than the optimal value for the Taguspark data sets. For the Alameda data sets, the solution obtained by ILP implementation is 0.7x better (optimal solution) than the greedy algorithm. However, the ILP implementation is, in the worst case, 5 orders of magnitude slower. Overall, both implementations provide significant gains for both optimization criteria when compared with the current hand-made approaches.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/~alexandre.lemos/rbn/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 ASP and MaxSAT encodings for Repairing steady state Boolean Networks}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Models of biological regulatory networks are increasingly used to formally describe and understand complex biological processes. Such models are often repaired whenever new observations become available, because the model cannot generate behaviours consistent with the new observations, or because the behaviours are contradictory. This process of model repair is often manual and therefore prone to errors. In this work, we describe biological regulatory networks using the Boolean logical formalism, where nodes are represented by Boolean variables denoting biological components and edges denote regulatory interactions between components. The evolution of each variable is defined by a Boolean logical function depending on the values of the regulators of the component. Here, we propose to repair the model by changing inconsistent functions, with four types of atomic repairs which can be further combined. The goal is to find the cardinality minimal set of repairs allowing the model to satisfy all available observations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/~ist173316/BAr/bar.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 BARISTA - Interactive Bar Table}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Interactive Bar Table implemented for the Machine-Human interaction course. The project was made in collaboration with Cristina Verdasca and Pedro Moniz\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://istwallet.tk/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 IST Wallet}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 A secure mobile payment system implemented in Android for the Network and Computer Security course. his work was developed in collaboration with Jo\'e3o Lu\'eds e Jo\'e3o Carraquico.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/project/nasc/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 \pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 \ulc4 NASC}}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 ToBeNamed Games: Not A Scrabble Clone\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.ist.utl.pt/ist173316/project/padi/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 PADI Map No Reduce }}
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 A simplified implementation of the Map Reduce middleware and programming model in C# for the Design and Implementation of Distributed Applications course. his work was developed in collaboration with Jo\'e3o Lu\'eds e Jo\'e3o Carraquico.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Teaching\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 2017-2018 (Spring semester) - practical classes of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fenix.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/disciplinas/Com5645111326-2/2017-2018/2-semestre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Compilers}} at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of IST (Alameda campus)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Previous Experience\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sub-reviewer Principles and Practice of Constraint Programming 2018.\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sub-reviewer Iberoamerican Journal of Artificial Inteligence 2017.\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sub-reviewer EPIA 2017.\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 04 2017 - present day: Research grant from ULisboa, IST and DEI.\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 10 2016 - 03 2017: Research grant in the project Deciphering the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation that control anti-fungal drug resistance in pathogenic yeast Candida glabrata: aiming at the development of improved diagnosis and therapeutic.\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 10 2015 - 12 2015: Research grant in the project DataStorm Large Scale Data Management in Cloud Environments.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Contact\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:alexandre.lemos@tecnico.ulisboa.pt"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 alexandre.lemos@tecnico.ulisboa.pt}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Thursday 15:00 to 16:30 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'a9 2018 Alexandre Lemos \'b7 Powered by the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Academic theme}} for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://gohugo.io/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Hugo}}. \
}